---
layout: post
category : projects
tagline: "BMX Cruiser"
tags : [bmx, mechanics]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Now that my company's local office relocated to a hip area nearby, A while back I gave my mountain bike to a buddy since I wasn't riding it, but I still have a BMX cruiser that I picked up sometime in college. It had sat outside for months in the weather, and only been overhauled maybe once in its lifetime. Based on the collection at <a href="http://bmxmuseum.com/bikes/free_agent/?model=116">bmxmuseum.com</a> my guess is it's early 2000's, possibly as new as 2004. I've probably had it the last 7 years.

First I replaced the tires, grips, and brake housings/cables. After an initial attempt at cleaning and repacking all the bearings it was obvious they were past their useful life. I rode the bike anyway, planning to replace parts as they broke. The bottom bracket made it almost 5 miles. Luckily I was only half a mile uphill from my house when the pedals started going sideways.

Woohoo, my first replacement part! I ordered a new sealed bottom bracket that would press fit into the American BB shell. What I neglected to consider was that I *thought* 19mm was a standard spindle size, but the stock spindle crank was actually much larger. Oops... ordered a new crankset. Might as well get some pedals and a chain while I'm at it.

The new drivetrain was good, and I rode it a few miles here and there around town. But the hubs could only spin freely if they had some play side to side, and the rims were impossible to keep true. Not to mention the brakes were spongy and didn't fully reset, so they couldn't be adjusted as close as I'd like to the rims. Since I was actually riding it, I justified replacing the wheels, freewheel, and brakes. 

Now it rides great. I found a local pump track thats tiny but works well enough for the cruiser. In my short journey so far I've learned a lot about how BMX has evolved and what I can change in the longer term (steering is next on the list), but for now I'm gonna go practice some manuals...
